update to Add F5 Cloud Services Integration (#1561)
DataDog/integrations-extras: f5-distributed-cloud/README.md

## Overview

F5 Distributed Cloud (XC) Services provides customers with a global cloud native platform that can deploy, manage, and secure their applications in hybrid environments (public cloud, private data centers, or colocations). ADN and CDN services are also available. 

The F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver, which can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][2].

This integration includes:

- Dashboard - *Access Log Overview*
- Saved View - *Including facets for commonly queried fields*

## Setup

Global log streaming is available for either system namespace or in shared namespace:

> - Shared Namespaces supports streaming logs from shared, all or a specific list of namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Shared Namespaces support streaming logs from all shared namespaces in your account, or a specific list of shared namespaces that you can specify.
```

> - System Namespaces only supports streaming logs from system namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- System Namespaces only support streaming logs from system namespaces.
```

> Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace. For a step-by-step video, click [here][7].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace. For a step-by-step video, see the [Configuring Remote Logging to Datadog official Datadog Youtube instructions][7].
```

**Step 1: To create a global log receiver**

> 1. Within the F5® Distributed Cloud Console, navigate to Shared Configuration service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the F5® Distributed Cloud Console, navigate to the Shared Configuration service.
```

2. Select Manage > Global Log Receiver.
3. Select Global Log Receiver in case of Cloud and Edge Sites service.
4. Click add Global Log Receiver button

**Step 2: Configure global log receiver properties**
Do the following in the Global Log Receiver section:

1. Within the Global Log Receiver section, enter a name in the metadata section. Optional: set labels and add a description.
2. Select Request Logs or Security Events for the Log Type field. Note: Request logs are set by default.
3. Select events to be streamed based on namespace from the following options:

> 	3.a Select logs from current namespace - streams logs from the shared namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	a. Select logs from the current namespace - streams logs from the shared namespace.
```

> 	3.b Select logs from all namespaces - streams logs from all namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	b. Select logs from all namespaces - streams logs from all namespaces.
```

> 	3.c Select logs in specific namespaces - streams logs from specified namespaces. Enter the namespace name in the displayed namespaces list. To add more than one namespace, select Add item. Note: Namespaces provide logical grouping and isolation of objects within a distributed cloud tenant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	c. Select logs in specific namespaces - streams logs from specified namespaces. Enter the namespace name in the displayed namespaces list. To add more than one namespace, select Add item. Note: Namespaces provide logical grouping and isolation of objects within a distributed cloud tenant.
```

4. Select Datadog for the Receiver Configuration box. Configure the following for the Datadog receiver:

>  	4.a Set the site name to datadoghq.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 	a. Set the site name to datadoghq.com.
```

> 	4.b Navigate to Datadog and [create an API key][4] within the organization settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	b. Navigate to Datadog and [create an API key][4] within the organization settings. 
```

> 	4.c Copy the API key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	c. Copy the API key
```

> 	4.d Navigate back to F5 and paste in the Datadog API key in the Datadog receiver fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	d. Navigate back to F5 and paste in the Datadog API key in the Datadog receiver fields.
```

**Optional Step 3: Configure advanced settings**

> Advanced settings include configuring batch options and TLS. You can apply limits such as maximum number of messages bytes or timeout for a batch of logs to be sent to the receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advanced settings include configuring batch options and TLS. You can apply limits such as a maximum number of messages bytes or a timeout for a batch of logs to be sent to the receiver.
```

1. Select the Show Advanced Fields toggle
2. Within the Batch Options section:

> 	 2.a Select Timeout Seconds for the Batch Timeout Options and enter a timeout value in the Timeout Seconds box.
> 	 2.b Select Max Events for the Batch Max Events and enter a value between 32 and 2000 in the Max Events box.
> 	 2.c Select Max Bytes for the Batch Bytes and enter a value between 4096 and 1048576 in the Batch Bytes box. Logs will be sent after the batch is size is equal to or more than the specified byte size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	 a. Select Timeout Seconds for the Batch Timeout Options and enter a timeout value in the Timeout Seconds box.
	 b. Select Max Events for the Batch Max Events and enter a value between 32 and 2000 in the Max Events box.
	 c. Select Max Bytes for the Batch Bytes and enter a value between 4096 and 1048576 in the Batch Bytes box. Logs will be sent after the batch size equals or exceeds the specified byte size.
```

> 3. Within the TLS section:
> 	 3.a Select Use TLS for the TLS field.
> 	 3.b Select Server CA Certificates for the Trusted CA field. Enter the certificates in PEM or Base64 format in the Server CA Certificates box.
> 	 3.c Select Enable mTLS for mTLS config and enter client certificate in PEM or Base64 format in the Client Certificate box.
> 	 3.d Select Configure in the Client Private Key field, enter the secret in the box with type selected as Text.
> 	 3.e Select Blindfold, wait for the operation to complete, and click Apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Within the TLS section:
	 a. Select Use TLS for the TLS field.
	 b. Select Server CA Certificates for the Trusted CA field. Enter the certificates in PEM or Base64 format in the Server CA Certificates box.
	 c. Select Enable mTLS for mTLS config and enter the client certificate in PEM or Base64 format in the Client Certificate box.
	 d. Select Configure in the Client Private Key field, and enter the secret in the box with type selected as Text.
	 e. Select Blindfold, wait for the operation to complete, and click Apply.
```

## Overview

F5 Distributed Cloud (XC) Services provides customers with a global cloud native platform that can deploy, manage, and secure their applications in hybrid environments (public cloud, private data centers, or colocations). ADN and CDN services are also available. 

The F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver, which can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][6].

This integration includes:

- Dashboard - *Access Log Overview*
- Saved View - *Including facets for commonly queried fields*

## Setup

Global log streaming is available for either system namespace or in shared namespace:
- Shared Namespaces supports streaming logs from shared, all or a specific list of namespaces
- System Namespaces only supports streaming logs from system namespaces.

> Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace. For a step-by-step video, click [here.][11]
```

**Step 1: To create a global log receiver**

1. Within the F5® Distributed Cloud Console, navigate to Shared Configuration service.
2. Select Manage > Global Log Receiver.
3. Select Global Log Receiver in case of Cloud and Edge Sites service.
4. Click add Global Log Receiver button

![snapshot][3]

**Step 2: Configure global log receiver properties**
Do the following in the Global Log Receiver section:

1. Within the Global Log Receiver section, enter a name in the metadata section. Optional: set labels and add a description.
2. Select Request Logs or Security Events for the Log Type field. Note: Request logs are set by default.
3. Select events to be streamed based on namespace from the following options:

> 	3a. Select logs from current namespace - streams logs from the shared namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	3.a Select logs from current namespace - streams logs from the shared namespace.
```

3. Within the TLS section:
	 3.a Select Use TLS for the TLS field.
	 3.b Select Server CA Certificates for the Trusted CA field. Enter the certificates in PEM or Base64 format in the Server CA Certificates box.
	 3.c Select Enable mTLS for mTLS config and enter client certificate in PEM or Base64 format in the Client Certificate box.
	 3.d Select Configure in the Client Private Key field, enter the secret in the box with type selected as Text.
	 3.e Select Blindfold, wait for the operation to complete, and click Apply.

**Step 4: Finish set up**

- Select Save & Exit to complete creating the global log receiver. Verify that [logs][9] are received into your Datadog account.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog Support][5] or [F5 Support][10].

## Further Reading

Learn more about [F5 Distributed Cloud Services][7].

[3]: images/image-0.png
[4]: images/logreceiver-config.png
[5]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
[6]: https://www.f5.com/cloud/products/distributed-cloud-console
[7]: https://www.f5.com/cloud
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/
[9]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs

> [10]: https://docs.cloud.f5.com/docs/support/support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[10]: https://docs.cloud.f5.com/docs/support/support
[11]: https://youtu.be/VUtXCUngiw8
```

## Overview

F5 Distributed Cloud (XC) Services provides customers with a global cloud native platform that can deploy, manage, and secure their applications in hybrid environments (public cloud, private data centers, or colocations). ADN and CDN services are also available. 

> The F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver, which can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][6].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver, which can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][2].
```

This integration includes:

- Dashboard - *Access Log Overview*
- Saved View - *Including facets for commonly queried fields*

## Setup

Global log streaming is available for either system namespace or in shared namespace:
- Shared Namespaces supports streaming logs from shared, all or a specific list of namespaces
- System Namespaces only supports streaming logs from system namespaces.

> Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace. For a step-by-step video, click [here.][11]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace. For a step-by-step video, click [here][11].
```

Reviewer 2: I formatted this incorrectly before, sorry about that!

> Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace. For a step-by-step video, click [here][11].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace. For a step-by-step video, click [here][7].
```

2. Select Manage > Global Log Receiver.
3. Select Global Log Receiver in case of Cloud and Edge Sites service.
4. Click add Global Log Receiver button

![snapshot][3]

**Step 2: Configure global log receiver properties**
Do the following in the Global Log Receiver section:

1. Within the Global Log Receiver section, enter a name in the metadata section. Optional: set labels and add a description.
2. Select Request Logs or Security Events for the Log Type field. Note: Request logs are set by default.
3. Select events to be streamed based on namespace from the following options:
	3.a Select logs from current namespace - streams logs from the shared namespace.
	3.b Select logs from all namespaces - streams logs from all namespaces.
	3.c Select logs in specific namespaces - streams logs from specified namespaces. Enter the namespace name in the displayed namespaces list. To add more than one namespace, select Add item. Note: Namespaces provide logical grouping and isolation of objects within a distributed cloud tenant.
4. Select Datadog for the Receiver Configuration box. Configure the following for the Datadog receiver:
 	4.a Set the site name to datadoghq.com.

> 	4.b Navigate to Datadog and [create an API key][8] within the organization settings. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	4.b Navigate to Datadog and [create an API key][4] within the organization settings. 
```

1. Select the Show Advanced Fields toggle
2. Within the Batch Options section:
	 2.a Select Timeout Seconds for the Batch Timeout Options and enter a timeout value in the Timeout Seconds box.
	 2.b Select Max Events for the Batch Max Events and enter a value between 32 and 2000 in the Max Events box.
	 2.c Select Max Bytes for the Batch Bytes and enter a value between 4096 and 1048576 in the Batch Bytes box. Logs will be sent after the batch is size is equal to or more than the specified byte size.
3. Within the TLS section:
	 3.a Select Use TLS for the TLS field.
	 3.b Select Server CA Certificates for the Trusted CA field. Enter the certificates in PEM or Base64 format in the Server CA Certificates box.
	 3.c Select Enable mTLS for mTLS config and enter client certificate in PEM or Base64 format in the Client Certificate box.
	 3.d Select Configure in the Client Private Key field, enter the secret in the box with type selected as Text.
	 3.e Select Blindfold, wait for the operation to complete, and click Apply.

**Step 4: Finish set up**

> - Select Save & Exit to complete creating the global log receiver. Verify that [logs][9] are received into your Datadog account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Select Save & Exit to complete creating the global log receiver. Verify that [logs][5] are received into your Datadog account.
```

## Troubleshooting

> Need help? Contact [Datadog Support][5] or [F5 Support][10].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Need help? Contact [Datadog Support][1] or [F5 Support][6].
```

## Further Reading

> Learn more about [F5 Distributed Cloud Services][7].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more about [F5 Distributed Cloud Services][3].
```

> [3]: images/image-0.png
> [4]: images/logreceiver-config.png
> [5]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
> [6]: https://www.f5.com/cloud/products/distributed-cloud-console
> [7]: https://www.f5.com/cloud
> [8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/
> [9]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs
> [10]: https://docs.cloud.f5.com/docs/support/support
> [11]: https://youtu.be/VUtXCUngiw8

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[1]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
[2]: https://www.f5.com/cloud/products/distributed-cloud-console
[3]: https://www.f5.com/cloud
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs
[6]: https://docs.cloud.f5.com/docs/support/support
[7]: https://youtu.be/VUtXCUngiw8
```

## Overview

> F5 Distributed Cloud (XC) Services provides a global cloud native platform where customers can deploy, manage, and secure their applications regardless of whether the application resides in a public cloud, in a private data center, or a colocation. It provides a variety of both ADN and CDN services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
F5 Distributed Cloud (XC) Services provides customers with a global cloud native platform that can deploy, manage, and secure their applications in hybrid environments (public cloud, private data centers, or colocations). ADN and CDN services are also available. 
```

> The F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver. F5 XC global log receiver can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][6].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver, which can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][6].
```

> The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration includes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This integration includes:
```

- Dashboard - *Access Log Overview*
- Saved View - *Including facets for commonly queried fields*

## Setup

> You can configure global log streaming in either system namespace or in shared namespace. In case of configuring in shared namespace, you can configure to stream from either shared namespace or all namespaces or specific list of namespaces. If you are configuring in system namespace, you can only stream logs from system namespace.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Global log streaming is available for either system namespace or in shared namespace:
- Shared Namespaces supports streaming logs from shared, all or a specific list of namespaces
- System Namespaces only supports streaming logs from system namespaces.

```

> The example shown in this guide creates a global log receiver object in the Console in system namespace for streaming the logs to the external log collection system.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below is an example of configuring a global log receiver in a system namespace.

```

> Perform the following in the F5® Distributed Cloud Console:
> 
> **Step 1: Start creating a global log receiver**
> 
> - In the Console home page, select Shared Configuration service.
> - Select Manage > Global Log Receiver.
> - Select Global Log Receiver in case of Cloud and Edge Sites service.
> 
> ![snapshot][3]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Step 1: To create a global log receiver**

1. Within the F5® Distributed Cloud Console, navigate to Shared Configuration service.
2. Select Manage > Global Log Receiver.
3. Select Global Log Receiver in case of Cloud and Edge Sites service.
4. Click add Global Log Receiver button

![snapshot][3]
```

> - Select Add Global Log Receiver button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

- Select Show Advanced Fields toggle and do the following in the Batch Options section:
    - Select Timeout Seconds for the Batch Timeout Options and enter a timeout value in the Timeout Seconds box.
    - Select Max Events for the Batch Max Events and enter a value between 32 and 2000 in the Max Events box.
    - Select Max Bytes for the Batch Bytes and enter a value between 4096 and 1048576 in the Batch Bytes box. Logs will be sent after the batch is size is equal to or more than the specified byte size.

Do the following for TLS section:

- Select Use TLS for the TLS field.
- Select Server CA Certificates for the Trusted CA field. Enter the certificates in PEM or Base64 format in the Server CA Certificates box.
- Select Enable mTLS for mTLS config and enter client certificate in PEM or Base64 format in the Client Certificate box.
    - Select Configure in the Client Private Key field, enter the secret in the box with type selected as Text.
    - Select Blindfold, wait for the operation to complete, and click Apply.

> **Step 4: Complete log receiver creation**
> 
> - Select Save & Exit to complete creating the global log receiver. Verify that logs are received into your Datadog account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Step 4: Finish set up**

- Select Save & Exit to complete creating the global log receiver. Verify that [logs][9] are received into your Datadog account.
```

> ## Data Collected
> 
> ### Metrics
> 
> The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration does not include any metrics at this time.
> 
> ### Events
> 
> The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration does not include any events at this time.
> 
> ### Service Checks
> 
> The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration does not include any service checks at this time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This can be removed

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog Support][5].

## Further Reading

Learn more about [F5 Distributed Cloud Services][7].

[3]: images/image-0.png
[4]: images/logreceiver-config.png
[5]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
[6]: https://www.f5.com/cloud/products/distributed-cloud-console

> [7]: https://www.f5.com/cloud

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[7]: https://www.f5.com/cloud
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/
[9]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs
[10]: https://docs.cloud.f5.com/docs/support/support
```

## Overview

> F5 Distributed Cloud (XC) Services provides a global cloud native platform where customers can deploy, manage and secure their applications regardless of whether the application resides in a public cloud, in a private data center, or a colocation facility, (see below).  It provides a variety of both ADN and CDN services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
F5 Distributed Cloud (XC) Services provides a global cloud native platform where customers can deploy, manage, and secure their applications regardless of whether the application resides in a public cloud, in a private data center, or a colocation facility (see below). It provides a variety of both ADN and CDN services.
```

> ![snapshot][1]

Reviewer 2: The overview section doesn't support images. This needs to be moved to the manifest file under media

Author: Hello I have updated all image sizes.  Should I initiate a new pull request?

Author: removed

> Although the F5 XC console UI provides very good observability natively, many enterprises prefer to aggregate their telemetry from various sources and centralize visibility/analytics on the Datadog platform.  To this end, the F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The F5 XC platform includes the Global Log Receiver. F5 XC global log receiver can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][6].
```

Reviewer 2: We want to avoid marketing/sales copy and language for integrations

> A F5 XC global log receiver can be configured to securely send logs to a Datadog HTTPS logging endpoint. Configuration is quite simple and can be done via the [F5 XC Console UI][6].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> In addition to the following configuration guidance. The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration includes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration includes:
```

> In addition to the following configuration guidance.  The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration includes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the following configuration guidance. The F5 Distributed Cloud Services integration includes:
```

- Dashboard - *Access Log Overview*
- Saved View - *Including facets for commonly queried fields*

> ![snapshot][2]

Reviewer 2: The overview section doesn't support images. This needs to be moved to the manifest file under media

Author: removed

> ## Setup

Reviewer 2: Your setup section includes a lot of information/wordy. We recommend cutting down on the detail and consolidate steps if possible

You can configure global log streaming in either system namespace or in shared namespace. In case of configuring in shared namespace, you can configure to stream from either shared namespace or all namespaces or specific list of namespaces. If you are configuring in system namespace, you can only stream logs from system namespace.

The example shown in this guide creates a global log receiver object in the Console in system namespace for streaming the logs to the external log collection system.

Perform the following in the F5® Distributed Cloud Console:

**Step 1: Start creating a global log receiver**

- In the Console home page, select Shared Configuration service.
- Select Manage > Global Log Receiver.
- Select Global Log Receiver in case of Cloud and Edge Sites service.

> ![snapshot][3]

Reviewer 2: please see comment regarding images in the overview section.

Author: updated images will be in next pull request

Reviewer 2: Hey Greg! Could you provide insight on what you mean by the next pull request? We're hoping to get everything squared away for the initial launch! We try to have everything inclusive in the first PR so future updates are minimal.

- Select Add Global Log Receiver button.

**Step 2: Configure global log receiver properties**
Do the following in the Global Log Receiver section:

- Enter a name in the metadata section. Optionally, set labels and add a description.
- Select Request Logs or Security Events for the Log Type field. The request logs are set by default.
- Select events to be streamed based on namespace from the following options:
    - Select logs from current namespace - streams logs from the shared namespace.
    - Select logs from all namespaces - streams logs from all namespaces.
    - Select logs in specific namespaces - streams logs from specified namespaces. Enter the namespace name in the displayed namespaces list. Use Add item button to add more than one namespace.  Namespaces provide logical grouping and isolation of objects within a distributed cloud tenant.
- Select Datadog for the Receiver Configuration box. Configure following for the Datadog receiver:
    - Provide the appropriate data Doc site name, (datadoghq.com) in this case.   
    - Provide a Datadog API key.

> ![snapshot][4]

Reviewer 2: please see comment regarding images in the overview section.

Author: updated images will be in next pull request
